1. File Operations:
● ls: Lists all files and directories in the present working
directory
● ls -R: Lists files in sub-directories as well
● ls -a: Shows hidden files
● ls -al: Lists files and directories with detailed information like
permissions, size, owner, etc.
● cd directoryname: Changes the directory
● cd ..: Moves one level up
● pwd: Displays the present working directory
● cat > filename: Creates a new file
● cat filename: Displays the file content
● cat file1 file2 > file3: Joins two files (file1 and file2) and stores
the output in a new file (file3)
● touch filename: Creates or modifies a file
● rm filename: Deletes a file
● cp source destination: Copies files from the source path to the
destination path
● mv source destination: Moves files from the source path to the
destination path
● find / -name filename: Finds a file or a directory by its name
starting from root
● file filename: Determines the file type
● less filename: Views the file content page by page
● head filename: Views the first ten lines of a file
● tail filename: Views the last ten lines of a file
● lsof: Shows which files are opened by which process.
● du -h --max-depth=1: Shows the size of each directory. Use
--max-depth=1 to limit the output to the current directory and its
immediate children.
● fdisk: Disk partition manipulation command.

2. Networking:
● ping host: Ping a host and outputs results
● whois domain: Get whois information for domain
● dig domain: Get DNS information for domain
● netstat -pnltu: Display various network related information such
as network connections, routing tables, interface statistics etc.
● ifconfig: Displays IP addresses of all network interfaces
● ssh user@host: Remote login into the host as user
● scp: Transfers files between hosts over ssh
● wget url: Download files from the web
● curl url: Sends a request to a URL and returns the response
● traceroute domain: Prints the route that a packet takes to reach
the domain.
● mtr domain: mtr combines the functionality of the traceroute and
ping programs in a single network diagnostic tool.
● ss: Another utility to investigate sockets. It's a more modern
alternative to netstat.
● nmap: Network exploration tool and security scanner.

Directory Operations:
● mkdir directoryname: Creates a new directory in the present
working directory
● rmdir directoryname: Deletes a directory
● cp -r source destination: Copies directories recursively
● mv olddir newdir: Renames directories
● find / -type d -name directoryname: Finds a directory starting from
root
